.TH LILO 8
.SH NAME
lilo \- Installer for m68k boot loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lilo
.RB [ -h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ -V | \-\-version ]
.RB [ -v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ -b | \-\-backup ]
.RB [ -u | \-\-uninstall ]
.RB [ -w | \-\-root 
.I prefix
]
.RB [ -r | \-\-restore\-from
.I file
]
.RB [ -s | \-\-save\-to
.I file
]
.RB [ -d | \-\-device
.I device
]
.RB [ -C | \-\-config-file
.I file
]
.RB [ -f | \-\-force ]
.RB [ -t | \-\-dostype
.I id
]
.RB [ -c | \-\-checksum ]
.RB [ -x | \-\-create-reset ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLilo\fR is used to install a boot block to a partition. That boot
block can boot Linux (and other operating systems) without booting the
native operating system of your machine first.
.PP
This manpage just describes the options of \fBlilo\fR. For more
information on how Lilo works in general, and about its configuration,
see the extensive documentation in \fI/usr/doc/m68kboot\fR. The Lilo
documentation is available is various formats (plain text, dvi, info,
PostScript, HTML).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display usage information.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Display the Lilo version.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode and output what currently is done.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-backup
Force making a backup of the boot block, even if a backup already
exists.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-uninstall
Uninstall Lilo by restoring the backup boot block.
.TP
.BI "\-w " "prefix, " "\-\-root " prefix
Use \fIprefix\fR as prefix to all path names, except for devices. This
is useful when creating boot floppies or for debugging.
.TP
.BI "\-r " "file, " "\-\-restore\-from " file
Restore the boot block from \fIfile\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-s " "file, " "\-\-save\-to " file
Save the boot block to \fIfile\fR first.
.TP
.BI "\-d " "device, " "\-\-device " device
Override the installation device specified in \fI/etc/lilo.conf\fR as
option \fBbootdev\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-C " "file, " "\-\-config\-file " file
Use \fIfile\fR instead of \fI/etc/lilo.conf\fR as configuration file.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
(Available only on Amiga)
Force installation on a partition with an unknown boot block.
.TP
.BI "\-t " "id, " "\-\-dostype " id
(Available only on Amiga)
Specify the \fBDosType\fR for the boot block.Valid DosTypes are: BOOU,
DOS0, DOS1, DOS2, DOS3, DOS4, DOS5,muFS, muF0, muF1, muF2, muF3, muF4,
and muF5. The default is the original DosType of the partition on
which Lilo is to be installed, or BOOU for partitions with an unknown
boot block (for those, \-\-force has to be specified, too).
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-checksum
(Available only on Amiga)
Fix the boot block checksum.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-create\-reset
(Available only on Amiga)
Write a boot block that reboots the computer if you boot from it. This
option is useful if you have a hard disk that spins up too slowly to
be detected after a cold reboot and that needs a manual reset, while
you also have a faster disk.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/lilo.conf
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I /boot/loader.machine
Template for the loader.
.TP
.I /boot/loader.patched
The actual loader, a filled-in version of the template.
.TP
.I /boot/map
This file is read by the loader and it contains the boot configuration
and vectors for the referenced files.
.SH AUTHORS
Geert Uytterhoeven <Geert.Uytterhoeven@cs.kuleuven.ac.be>,
Roman Hodek <Roman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
